>> What do near-death
experiences suggest about
the ultimate source of
reality, spirituality,
and what many call God?
Psychiatrist Raymond Moody
explains in his new book,
"God is Bigger Than the Bible."
This is "Gaia News."
Dr. Raymond Moody has spent
more than four decades
studying the afterlife.
In his 1975 book,
"Life After Life,"
he first presented his research
on the Near-Death Experience,
or NDE, the transcendent
experience of death
that radically transforms
the life of the person who
lives to tell about it.
In his new book, "God is
Bigger Than the Bible,"
Dr. Moody presents
his thoughts on God
drawn from the accounts
of the thousands of people
he has interviewed about
their near-death experiences.
>> When I was a kid, I
didn't think about God.
I can't say I was an atheist
because I never really
thought about God--
then went to college
and got interested
in these near-death
experiences through Plato
and, subsequently, have heard of
thousands of these from people
all over the world who have
this same kind of experience.
Many of them have
conversations with God.
And so that is
how I came to God.
And God has become just
a big part of my life
in the last few decades.
>> Dr. Moody's motivation for
writing his latest book is
to provide readers with an
understanding of God or source
that is entirely outside the
realm of organized religion.
To Dr. Moody,
ideological religion
can present a
fearsome image of God
that has scared many
away from developing
a personal relationship
with the divine.
>> Well, before I started
hearing people with near-death
experiences, my notion of
God was that people had this
imaginary figure who was
watching their every step with
a little book, trying to see
if they're going to stumble
or something.
But when I started
hearing these people
with near-death experiences,
it was a whole different take
on God.
People say that when they
had their cardiac arrest
or whatever--
that they left their bodies and
they dissolved into this light,
almost.
People say that what kind of
love that you have experienced
while you're alive--
that this is just absolutely
beyond description.
You go through a passageway into
this light of complete comfort
and peace and love.
You feel just wrapped up in it.
>> A common component of the
NDE is what is known as the life
review.
>> People say they are
surrounded by holographic
panorama consisting of
everything they've ever done.
And they witness
it from the point
of view of the other people
with whom they've interacted.
And all of this is
being experienced
in the presence of a being of
complete compassion and love
who sees all those things
they've done there,
but there's no judgment
coming from this--
that this being is helping
you evaluate these things.
And they say that
there are no words,
but that the thought
comes through.
The question that
comes from this being
is, how have you
learned to love?
People learn a lot
about themselves
from these encounters with God.
>> Through his research, both
with near-death experiencers
and the elderly, Dr. Moody has
come to an understanding of God
as the writer of
our life stories.
>> What is your
life but your story?
Your whole consciousness is
geared to create a story.
As soon as some new event
happens in your life,
your mind immediately starts to
weave it into your life story.
What this life has to
do with is our stories.
And we go through one
story, and then we
go through some sort of
incomprehensible process.
And then we come back
on another story line.
What degree God is--
helps us choose the
plot, I don't know.
My guess would be
that there would
be a kind of advice process--
is what-- the sense I get.
>> After decades
of research, Dr.
Moody feels like there is now a
growing shift in understandings
of the afterlife.
>> We are beginning to
understand, I think,
better what it might mean to say
that our consciousness can go
on even after we die.
The world is about to open up.
We will have whole
new ways of addressing
the question of an afterlife.
People say that in their
near-death experiences,
when they get over
to the other side--
that God is much more
accessible there.
And my question is,
if we get closer
to a rational comprehension
of life after death,
will that bring
us closer to God?
When people begin to
comprehend the whole notion
of an afterlife with entirely
new systems of thinking,
then that will open them up more
to personal contact with God.
>> And for Dr. Moody, it is that
personal contact that makes all
the difference.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.